The iPhone 16 Plus, more than ever before, forces me to ask whether I need a 120Hz screen or a telephoto lens. Well - of course, it's not a need - whether I can stand to live without either of those features.
After a week of testing and using the iPhone 16 Plus - in the excellent Ultramarine color - it's clear that the big-screen iPhone for the masses brings in a hefty upgrade, and people will be happy with it. The addition of Apple's Action Button is nice and lets you customize the experience a bit more, but the Camera Control and the A18 chip are the real highlights. 
The 48-megapixel main and 12MP ultrawide cameras are versatile shooters that don't offer a dramatic improvement over last generation's iPhones, but, with upgraded processing, new photographic styles, and the Camera Control, the iPhone 16 Plus ups the shooting experience, even when compared to the iPhone 15 Plus. It's all about changing how you shoot and customizing the effects, zoom, and depth in real-time. 

This new Camera interface, to a degree, makes the Action Button's arrival less of an event. But you can still customize it to your liking, and it fits with the broader themes of iOS 18.  

While it's no longer the battery champ - that goes to the iPhone 16 Pro Max - the iPhone 16 Plus is still a road warrior. It can confidently make it through the day from early morning to late evening, and the faster charging speeds are nice to have.
Overall, the iPhone 16 Plus is the best iteration of a big-screen iPhone for the masses. It mixes some first-of-its-kind features like the Camera Control and excellent performance from the A18, with some of the best features finally trickling down from the Pros to the affordable models. At this price, I wish the Plus had more than 128GB of storage, but that's the Apple tax, and I'm too distracted by the excellent colors to worry about the storage.
You don't necessarily need to rush out and upgrade if you have a iPhone 15 Plus, unless you're an avid photographer. Still, if you have an iPhone 14 Plus or older iPhone, you'd see improved performance, better image capabilities, a longer runtime, and future-proof support for Apple Intelligence. And remember, AI is set to roll out October 2024, at the time of writing.




