The iPhone 13 is no longer Apple's newest smartphone, though it may well be a more tempting buy than its successor. The iPhone 14 (and 15) series is out, and the main device in the series is pretty similar to the 13 with the same cameras, display, chipset  and design. You can check out our iPhone 14 review to find our full notes on the device.

That's a shame, because in our initial iPhone 13 review, we noted that it didn't bring a huge number of features over the iPhone 12, though it did have a few tweaks here and there.
On paper, you'd be hard pressed to find a reason why Apple didn't call the iPhone 13 the iPhone 12S. The design is largely the same, the specs don't look hugely different, and there aren't many headline-grabbing new features.
If you do want a bigger upgrade then you might not have long to wait, as we're expecting to see the iPhone 14 on September 7, along with the iPhone 14 Max, iPhone 14 Pro, and iPhone 14 Pro Max, so bear that in mind before buying this.
That said, everything on the iPhone 13 is a touch better than before - and some elements are significantly better.
The highlight of the iPhone 13 is its battery life. Previously, iPhones haven't been synonymous with strong battery life, but during every day of our testing we've been hard-pressed to run the iPhone 13 out of juice.
Apple has finally cracked it when it comes to battery life, and it's now far better than it has been on previous iPhone iterations.
The iPhone 13's A15 Bionic chipset, meanwhile, is incredibly powerful, and paired with 4GB of RAM it's capable of running multiple apps and tasks quickly and efficiently.
An updated duo camera for the iPhone 13 improves clarity in images, while the introduction of the company's Sensor Shift optical image stabilization (OIS) technology, previously only available on Apple's Pro Max handsets, is a big deal for those who want to shoot quickly without losing their subject in a blur.
Even the screen on the iPhone 13 is a touch better than what we've seen on previous 'standard' iPhones, and that's a big deal if you're upgrading from an iPhone XS or older. The OLED technology here enables a brighter picture than ever, and the picture quality is simply fantastic.
One disappointment, however, is that Apple hasn't included a 120Hz refresh rate on the iPhone 13, so you're not getting as smooth an experience as on the iPhone 13 Pro or iPhone 13 Pro Max.
iPhone 13 prices start at $799 / £779 / AU$1,349 - although that gets you 128GB of storage, rather than the 64GB of the base-model iPhone 12. Since the original publication of this review, mind, those prices have plummeted.
While at first glance the iPhone 13 may not seem like a great leap forward for Apple, the improved battery life, performance, screen and camera all add up to be a worthwhile upgrade for anyone who's coming from an older iPhone, or looking to make the switch from Android.



