Welcome to the more modern 'standard' iPhone 15, or at least a standard iPhone that now seems more in step with its higher-end siblings. 
The iPhone 15 has last year's best chipset (the A16 Bionic) and last year's best 48MP image sensor, but Apple has also finally dropped the beleaguered notch in favor of the same Dynamic Island as all the other iPhone 15 models, and last year's iPhone 14 Pro and Pro Max. 
That new, more modern screen also matches that of the best iPhone, the new iPhone 15 Pro Max (and Pro) with sunshine-beating 2,000-nit brightness. Even the design essentially matches the best of the iPhone 15 lineup, with newly contoured edges for a more ergonomic feel, and the now-obligatory (thanks to European regulators) USB-C port (though not one that supports USB 3.0 10Gbps speeds). 
The iPhone 15 even has something that it can consider all its own: color-infused back glass that's now brushed rather than shiny. It looks great and feels even better, making this iPhone 15 just a little less slippery than its predecessor.
The main camera gets a nice bump over last year's, and the iPhone 15 only suffers in direct comparison to the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max (you can find out more about this year's top of the line iPhone in my full iPhone 15 Pro Max review), which also have a 48MP sensor, but one that's larger and thus produces even better images.

Still, the iPhone 15's new 48MP main camera, with the sensor inherited from the iPhone 14 Pro handsets, is nothing to sniff at, and it now shoots at a default 24MP, with the processing stitching together the best of a pixel-binned 12MP image and all the data from the 48MP image.
There is zoom, of a sort, on the iPhone 15. You get 2x zoom, but this is accomplished by cropping into the center 12MP of the 48MP sensor. That's optical, but it doesn't quite compare to the dedicated 3x optical zoom on the iPhone 15 Pro or the Pro Max's 5x optical, let alone the Samsung Galaxy S23 Ultra's 10x optical zoom.

The iPhone 15 remains one of Apple's most pocketable phones (especially with Apple having discontinued the iPhone mini) and it now demands fewer compromises. You get the brightest, notch-free screen, a very able last-generation mobile CPU, and a lot of megapixels to play with for all your smartphone photography needs.
If you'd prefer what is essentially the same phone but with a larger body and screen, check out our iPhone 15 Plus review; and if you want to go Pro but can't quite stretch to the Max, read our iPhone 15 Pro review. But if you want to join the iPhone family, and not pay a lot of money for the privilege, the iPhone 15 is the best palm-sized choice.





